Robbie Williams 'blasted out Black Sabbath music' to torment Jimmy Page, resident claims

heir bitter feud over a basement extension was hardly rock and roll.

But Robbie Williams is said to have been so intent on further tormenting his neighbour Jimmy Page he blasted out the music of Led Zeppelin's rivals Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd and Deep Purple whenever he spotted him venturing into his garden.

He is even said to have been "imitating" Led Zeppelin frontman Robert Plant by wearing a long wig and stuffing a pillow up his shirt.

The pair had been at loggerheads ever since Williams submitted plans for a basement gym and pool at his 17million West London home five years ago.

Page, 74, objected as he feared excavation work would damage his 1875 Grade I-listed mansion.

The musician has lived at the property, known as Tower House and designed by William Burges, for 40 years and referred to it as "one of the most historic buildings in the borough".

 Jimmy Page's Kensington home in west London
Jimmy Page's Kensington home in west London CREDIT: DAVID MIRZOEFF/PA
Last month, Kensington and Chelsea councillors granted Williams planning permission on condition that officials received assurances about monitoring vibration levels and ground movement.

Mark Borkowski, Page's PR agent, said he hoped to arrange a meeting between the two musicians this month to settle their grievances.

The latest twist in the saga came from a concerned local resident named only as Johnny, who wrote to the council making claims about Williams' antics.

In a comment submitted to the council, he said the former Take That star had been playing music by Led Zeppelin's rivals on outside speakers whenever he saw Page.

His letter, posted on the planning portal, suggested that his information could have a bearing on any potential appeal process.

 Robbie Williams's Kensington home
Robbie Williams's Kensington home CREDIT: DAVID MIRZOEFF/PA
"The committee may not have been aware that Robbie Williams has been playing loud 70's rock music on outside speakers when he views Jimmy Page outside his home," he wrote.

"What's been most annoying is that Mr Williams has played rock arch rival bands Black Sabbath, Pink Floyd and Deep Purple.

"He obviously knows this upsets Mr Jimmy Page.

"There have also been some reports that Robbie Williams has dressed up to imitate iconic Led Zeppelin frontman and lead singer Robert Plant."

 Jimmy Page gave evidence to the council's planning committee
Jimmy Page gave evidence to the council's planning committee CREDIT: DAVID MIRZOEFF/PA
Williams, who had two previous planning applications refused after objections from Page, lives at the property with his wife Ayda Field and their three children.

His builders were fined 4,670 in 2017 for breaching noise regulations following a complaint by Page.

In 2017, Williams apologised to Page after likening some of his behaviour to someone with a "mental illness".

A spokeswoman for Williams said the claims were "a complete fabrication and nonsense."