Miley Cyrus Has a Chilling Reason Why She Quit Drugs, Which Included "a Lot of Weed"
She also explains her bunny and cat costumes. (You know the ones).

Appearing on Wednesday’s episode of the Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, Miley Cyrus got serious for a moment to address her recent sobriety. According to Miley, she stopped smoking weed because she yearned for a sense of clarity. "I’ve always been very stoned on your shows, I don’t know if you know this," she said. "It’s weird to be here. Remember the last time, I was here, I was dressed like a bunny rabbit and then a cat, there’s a reason for that. I was high." She continued, "I want to be really clear because I’m actually the most passionate about what I’m doing with this record," referring to her upcoming untitled sixth studio album. "I loved making this record so, so much. This record for me at this moment is the most important album I’ve ever made. I wanted to make sure I was super clear when I’m talking."

Miley also revealed a recurring nightmare she had whenever she got high. "I had a dream that I would die during my monologue on SNL, that I would get so stoned and die," she said, before adding that she also turned to Google to verify that "that’s never happened … but I kept having this nightmare." Fair enough. A monologue in front of a live audience is terrifying enough so this nightmare sounds far worse than any dream I've had about any slasher movie villain to ever grace the big screen. (I will never name them on purpose because I'm pretty sure that automatically leads to a bad dream.)


Miley previously opened up about her new sober lifestyle in a Billboard interview published in May, when she first announced her new single "Malibu." At the time, she had been weed-free for three weeks. "I’m not doing drugs, I’m not drinking, I’m completely clean right now! That was just something that I wanted to do," she explained. She also noted that it was a decision that came from within, which made the move seamless. "When I want something, it’s fucking easy for me. But if anyone told me not to smoke, I would have not done it. It’s because it was on my time."

On the Tonight Show, Miley said at the moment, she’s calm. "I don’t seem calm, but this is really calm for me. I feel really calm and peaceful … I hope people get to see that. With Bangerz, I never tried to prove anything or not be myself. Anytime I say I’m being myself, whether I look like this or look completely different, or I’m a panda, that is myself. I’m always being myself. It just depends what that is."

With all that in mind, here is Miley being 100 percent Miley performing "Inspired," the second single off her new album. Bravo.