Paul Merson is back with his latest round of Premier League predictions, including West Ham vs Arsenal, Everton vs Bournemouth, Tottenham vs Manchester United and Manchester City vs Wolves.

The Premier League is back after a break for FA Cup and Carabao Cup action. Read on to see who the Magic Man is backing this weekend

Arsenal struggle to stop goals going in and West Ham's best form of defence is attack. I don't know how Arsenal will cope with the likes of Carroll, Arnautovic and Anderson, but the Gunners are good going forward so it makes for an entertaining game.

You just don't know what you're going to get with these two teams. The way these teams have played recently, no result would leave me surprised. Nothing would shock me. The pressure is on Everton, they need to win the game. And with Bournemouth so soft away from home, I think the Toffees will win.

If you'd have asked me two weeks ago I would have said United did not have a chance, not a chance. But having watched Spurs at Wembley against Chelsea and Wolves, United have every chance now. Spurs let a half-time lead slip against Wolves, didn't have a shot on target in the second half and lost 3-1. Some put that down to tiredness but I'm not having any of that. Three days later they looked like the Harlem Globetrotters when they ripped Cardiff apart inside 20 minutes - they didn't look knackered then, did they?

Spurs have opened the door to United but I think both teams won't be able to live with each other going forward. United are shockingly poor defensively, even the teams they've beaten recently looked like scoring every time they went forward. Sooner or later that catches up with you. I see Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's winning start at United coming to an end but a great result for him at Wembley.

City struggled at Wolves earlier in the season. Nuno Espirito Santo's side have done great, they've come up and had a real go. They have been an absolute credit to the Premier League. City look back in their groove after following up the win over Liverpool with emphatic cup victories over Rotherham and Burton. Those kind of games are dangerous because you can pick up bad habits in them, habits which a side of Wolves' calibre will punish. City have to be careful, but they should get the job done.

This is the biggest game of the season for Liverpool, even bigger than the Manchester City game. They have to win this game, if they draw it will just be a disaster. Going out of the FA Cup was a blessing in disguise. They put all of their eggs in one basket, which they should, but that will count for nothing if they don't win at Brighton.

They could have been 10 points clear a week ago, if they fail to win at the Amex and City win, their lead could be down to two points. Psychologically that would be it. They have to win this game or they will not win the league. This is a really hard game for Liverpool, especially what they have been through the last few weeks, but I reckon they will hold their nerve