		

Search Sky Sports
 
Football News
News
  
Teams
 
Leagues/Cups
 
Fixtures
 
Results
 
Tables
 
Transfers
 
Video
 
Pundits
 
On Sky
 
Sky Bet
European paper talk: Manchester United in Paul Pogba-Douglas Costa swap deal?
Last Updated: 11/01/19 4:50pm

  
Could Paul Pogba be on his way back to Juventus?
Could Paul Pogba be on his way back to Juventus?
Manchester United could be open to swapping Paul Pogba for Douglas Costa, plus more from the newspapers across Europe.

Our friends at Football Whispers have trawled the Continental press to round up the latest transfer rumours from around Europe.

Italy
Douglas Costa is said to be a Manchester United transfer target
Douglas Costa is said to be a Manchester United transfer target
United could be open to the idea of allowing Paul Pogba to return to Juventus if they are given Douglas Costa in part-exchange. Former Bayern Munich winger Costa is a long-time Manchester United transfer target but the Bianconeri are keen to retain him. (Tuttosport)

Juventus have agreed terms with Arsenal midfielder Aaron Ramsey over a free transfer in the summer, but the Italian champions are keen to sign the Welshman this month. However, the fee the Gunners will demand could scupper any January switch. (Gazzetta dello Sport)

Inter Milan will move for Juventus star Paulo Dybala if they lose Mauro Icardi. The Nerazzurri's new CEO of sport, Beppe Marotta, signed Dybala for Juventus in 2015 and will move for the 25-year-old Argentinian if Icardi leaves the San Siro. (Tuttosport)

Nicolo Barella has reportedly decided not to join Chelsea
Nicolo Barella has reportedly decided not to join Chelsea
Cagliari midfielder Nicolo Barella - who has been labelled 'the new Pirlo' - has decided against joining Chelsea this month. Blues boss Maurizio Sarri was prepared to sanction a £45m move for the 21-year-old playmaker. (Tutto Mercato)

However, Chelsea's move to sign Leandro Paredes, the 24-year-old former Roma midfielder, from Zenit St Petersburg has reached an advanced stage. (Sportitalia)

Napoli are expecting Paris Saint-Germain to bid for their Brazilian midfielder Allan, but the 25-year-old will not be allowed to leave for less than £91m, and the Serie A side would first want to secure a deal for Barella as his replacement. (Gazzetta dello Sport)

Spain
Barcelona are contemplating signing a striker during the January transfer window and are interested in taking Chelsea striker Alvaro Morata on loan. The La Liga champions will first look to offload Munir and Arsenal transfer target Denis Suarez before making any signings, though. (Sport)

Will Barcelona come in for Alvaro Morata?
Will Barcelona come in for Alvaro Morata?
United midfielder Juan Mata has admitted he does not yet know whether he will still be at Old Trafford next season. The 30-year-old's contract with the 20-time champions is set to expire at the end of the current campaign. (As)

Liverpool defender Alberto Moreno has informed the club he does not want to renew his contract at Anfield, which expires in June, and would like to return to Spain in the summer. The 26-year-old is currently second choice for the left-back position in Jurgen Klopp's side, behind Andrew Robertson. (Estadio Deportivo)

France
After Cesc Fabregas completes his move to the Ligue 1 side, Michy Batshuayi could be the second Chelsea player to join Monaco this month, with the Principality club keen to take the Belgian on loan for the rest of the season. (France Football)

Portugal
