Cesc Fabregas completes move to Monaco from Chelsea

Cesc Fabregas completes a permanent transfer from Monaco to Chelsea. Pictures courtesy of @AS_Monaco
Cesc Fabregas has reunited with former Arsenal team-mate Thierry Henry after joining Monaco from Chelsea.

The former Gunners midfielder leaves English football after 501 matches.

The 31-year-old has signed a three-and-a-half year deal with the Principality club, who are 19th in Ligue 1.



 Today we say goodbye and wish @cesc4official the best of luck for the future.  

Fabregas leaves Chelsea for Monaco. | Official Site | Chelsea Football Club
Cesc Fabregas has today completed a permanent transfer to Monaco.

chelseafc.com
5,700 people are talking about this
Despite Chelsea stalling over a move since Sunday as they sought a replacement, Fabregas has signed in time to make his debut away to Marseille this weekend.

"It is a great pleasure to join AS Monaco, a new project for me," said Fabregas, who will wear the number 44 shirt.

	
Play Super 6
Predict 6 correct scores for your chance to win 250K.

"The group is of quality with young players and a young coach. I'm here to help the team.

"I'm looking forward to starting. We have a great match to play in Marseille on Sunday. I am very excited."

Chelsea midfielder Fabregas will reunite with former team-mate and Monaco manager Thierry Henry
Chelsea midfielder Fabregas will reunite with former team-mate and Monaco manager Thierry Henry
Chelsea are understood to be interested in replacing the Spaniard with either Cagliari midfielder Nicolo Barella or Zenit St Petersburg midfielder Leandro Paredes.

Fabregas left the pitch in tears after making his final appearance for Chelsea in last Saturday's FA Cup third-round win over Nottingham Forest.

	
Fabregas legacy assessed
The Spaniard departs the Premier League as one of the finest midfielders in its history

The Spanish midfielder began his career in England at Arsenal after joining them from Barcelona's academy and was named as the club's captain in 2008.He spent nearly eight years at Arsenal before returning to his boyhood club in 2011.

Fabregas said goodbye to Stamford Bridge after the FA Cup win over Nottingham Forest
Fabregas said goodbye to Stamford Bridge after the FA Cup win over Nottingham Forest
In Spain, Fabregas won the Copa del Rey and La Liga in successive seasons before he returned to England in 2014 with Chelsea.

He won the League Cup and the Premier League in his first season, trophies that had eluded him during his time at Arsenal.

Fabregas won two Premier League titles at Chelsea after his return to England from Barcelona
Fabregas won two Premier League titles at Chelsea after his return to England from Barcelona
Further title success came in the 2016/17 season before he lifted the FA Cup for the first time last season.

Fabregas' latest challenge will be to try and save Monaco from relegation.