	
Get Sky Sports
 
Log In
 
Search Sky Sports
 
 Watch Sky Sports 

Tennis News
News
 
Australian Open
 
Fixtures/Results
 
Competitions
 
Live
 
Rankings
 
Profiles
 
On Sky
 
Video
 
Sky Bet
 
Get Sky Sports
Andy Murray 'touched' by tributes from fellow players and sportspeople
Last Updated: 11/01/19 5:01pm

  
3:03
The world's leading tennis players have reacted to Andy Murray's plans for retirement.
Andy Murray said that "a big cuddle" from his mum has eased his anguish as tributes flood in after his retirement revelation.


View this post on Instagram
Best way to feel better after a tough day is a big cuddle from your mum Genuinely been very touched by all of the messages and support from everybody today... It means a lot and has made me feel much more positive than when I woke this.

A post shared by Andy Murray (@andymurray) on Jan 11, 2019 at 5:36am PST

Three-time Grand Slam champion Murray announced plans on Friday to retire after this summer's Wimbledon due to ongoing injury issues - but admitted he may stop after the Australian Open this month.

That tearful revelation has resulted in widespread support throughout his fellow tennis players and beyond.

The tennis community


View this post on Instagram
Andy, I know you take me for a joker most of the time, but at least hear me out on this one old friend. You will always be someone that impacted the sport in so many different ways, I know this was never the way you wanted to go out, but hey it was a heck of a ride. You took me under your wing as soon as I got on tour, and to this day you have been someone I literally just look forward to seeing. You are one crazy tennis player, miles better than me, but I just want you to know that today isn't only a sad day for you and your team, it's a sad day for the sport and for everyone you've had an impact on. Which leaves me big fella.. these are a couple photos, that should make you smile and think, I was actually a little bit of a younger brother to you. Anyways, I just want you to know, and I'm sure you already do, everyone wants you to keep fighting and to keep being you. Goodluck at the Australian Open muzz, I'll be behind you. #onelastdance

A post shared by Kygs (@k1ngkyrg1os) on Jan 10, 2019 at 10:46pm PST

.@andy_murray is a great champion who I have the utmost admiration for. 
I've enjoyed following his stellar career, he is truly one of the greats of our game & a lovely bloke! Arise Sir Andy. I applaud you & wish you well in all your future endeavours.
Rocket

 Rod Laver (@rodlaver) January 11, 2019
1:09
Brits Kyle Edmund, Jo Konta & Cameron Norrie react
Andy, just watched your conference. Please don't stop trying. Keep fighting. I can imagine your pain and sadness. I hope you can overcome this. You deserve to retire on your own terms, whenever that happens. We love you @andy_murray and we want to see you happy and doing well.  

 Juan M. del Potro (@delpotrojuan) January 11, 2019
Tennis will come to an end for us all but the friendships will last a lifetime. What you've done for the sport will live on forever. I'm hoping for a strong and healthy finish for you, my friend! @andy_murray pic.twitter.com/Bcs0cdllJp

 Grigor Dimitrov (@GrigorDimitrov) January 11, 2019
How Murray has promoted women in sport

Johanna Konta, the British No 1, said: "There have been so many examples of when he has stood up for us - not just for women's tennis but women in general.

"He has also been blessed with two daughters and I think he's grown up with a really strong female role model with his mum and now his wife is also a strong character so he is surrounded by great, strong women.

"He has put that through in the way he has voiced his opinions and the way he has tackled some questions and issues that have arisen and I think everybody has always been very appreciative of him."

I don't really care whether some of the other male players like it or not. That's not something that really bothers me. I was coached by my mum for a long time. I have had her around at tournaments for a long time.
Murray in 2014 before appointing Amelie Mauresmo as coach

.@andy_murray You are a champion on and off the court. So sorry you cannot retire on your own terms, but remember to look to the future. Your greatest impact on the world may be yet to come. Your voice for equality will inspire future generations. Much love to you & your family. https://t.co/AQUOP3LGec

 Billie Jean King (@BillieJeanKing) January 11, 2019
Another example of the ridiculous sexism that still exists in sport.
Murray comment on Ada Hegerberg controversy

How Murray inspires sportspeople beyond tennis

Keep going @andy_murray 
Hope you somehow can come back to your best!
 

 Thomas Bjorn (@thomasbjorngolf) January 11, 2019
Hard to read that @andy_murray being forced to retire because of injury,no doubt one of Scotland's greatest ever sportsmen    

 stephen hendry (@SHendry775) January 11, 2019
Murray's true personality...


View this post on Instagram
I have no real friends.

A post shared by Andy Murray (@andymurray) on Dec 15, 2018 at 7:04am PST

The major accomplishments

Murray won Olympic gold at London 2012
Murray won Olympic gold at London 2012
Murray won the 2012 US Open
Murray won the 2012 US Open
Murray ended Britain's 77-year wait for a Wimbledon champion in 2013
Murray ended Britain's 77-year wait for a Wimbledon champion in 2013
A second Wimbledon title came in 2016
A second Wimbledon title came in 2016
Murray won the top prize at the 2016 Olympics
Murray won the top prize at the 2016 Olympics
The farewell

1:59
An emotional Andy Murray has revealed he plans to retire
Also See:
Murray on verge of retiring
 
The injury timeline
Sponsored Links
 Celeb Couples with Major Age Differences
Celeb Couples with Major Age Differences
Family Minded
 Every Driver In Ireland Must Have These Night Glasses.
Every Driver In Ireland Must Have These Night Glasses.
breakthroughtrend.com
 Strange Link Between Eggs and Diabetes (WATCH)
Strange Link Between Eggs and Diabetes (WATCH)
Healthnewstips.today
 Ranked: 25 Toughest Golf Courses in the World
Ranked: 25 Toughest Golf Courses in the World
Stadium Talk
 15 European Cities with Highest Quality of Life
15 European Cities with Highest Quality of Life
Far and Wide
 25 Insanely Cool Products from the USA Finally in Ireland
25 Insanely Cool Products from the USA Finally in Ireland
Next Tech
 Dental Implants Can Be Cheaper Than You Think
Dental Implants Can Be Cheaper Than You Think
learnnowhub
 New Site Finds the Cheapest Flights in Seconds!
New Site Finds the Cheapest Flights in Seconds!
TripsShop.com
 Night Driving Is 80% Safer With Those Amazing "X-Ray Vision" Glasses
Night Driving Is 80% Safer With Those Amazing "X-Ray Vision" Glasses
ZaloTech
Videos
	
World of tennis reacts to Murray
	
Tearful Murray fears career is over
	
Murray: I've been in pain for 20 months
	
Emotional Murray walks out
	
Murray is GB's 'greatest ever tennis player'
Trending
1	Bielsa: I did send someone to spy
2	Your Spurs-Man Utd combined XI revealed
3	Euro papers: Utd in Pogba-Costa swap?
4	Fabregas leaves Chelsea for Monaco
5	Merson's predictions
6	Should Poch stick with Spurs or leave?
7	Merse: Arsenal 'stupid' over Ramsey
8	Poch: No extra motivation for Ole
9	Clyne responds to Warnock jibe
10	Sarri slams Bayern over Hudson-Odoi
 Video   Latest News
Twitter  Facebook  Google+
Sky Sports
Get Sky Sports
Sky Sports Apps
Sportinglife.com
TEAMtalk.com
Football365.com
Team Sky
 
Partners
Sky Bet
Fantasy Football
Super 6
Sky Sports Pub Finder
Living for Sport
Planet Rugby
Golf365
Planet F1
Cricket365
 
Sky Sports Channels
Sky Sports Main Event
Sky Sports Premier League
Sky Sports Football
Sky Sports Cricket
Sky Sports Golf
Sky Sports Racing
Sky Sports F1
Sky Sports USA
Sky Sports Arena
Sky Sports News
Sky Sports Mix
 
More Sky Sites
Sky.com
Sky News
Sky Corporate
Sky For Businesses
Now TV
Sky Communal TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Store Locator
Work for Sky
Advertise With Us
Sky TV Accessories
Terms & Conditions
 
Privacy & Cookies Notice
 
Accessibility Information
 
Contact Us
   2019 Sky UK


We use Cookies - by using this site or closing this message you're agreeing to our Cookies policy

